

At the most basic level, Red Hat Identity Management is a domain controller for Linux and Unix machines. Identity Management defines the domain, using controlling servers and enrolled client machines.

Security information frequently relates to _identities_ of users, machines, and services. Once the identity is verified, then access to services and resources can be controlled.

Protocol: A set of rules and guidelines for communicating data.

Identity Management focuses on identities (user and machine) and policies that relate to those identities and their interactions.

========================================================
# Kerberos

The primary IdM server, essentially a domain controller, uses a Kerberos server and KDC for authentication. An LDAP backend contains all of the domain information, including users, client machines, and domain configuration.


Kerberos Server: Entry point for kerberos operations. Contains:

- Authentication Server (AS)
- TGS (TGS)
- Database (Stores password and ID of all verified users)


Here's How it works:

elasticserver01 (client) ----> Presents its username to the AS ---> forwarded to KDC ---> KDC issues a TGT -----> TGS encrypts the TGT ----> Returns to the workstation.


The TGT (Ticket) is stored in a ticket cache (called a keytab) on the client, so that services on that server can authenticate users with valid tickets.

=========================================================
# CA 

Kerberos can use certificates along with keytabs for authentication, and some services require certificates for secure communication. Identity Management includes a certificate authority, through Dogtag Certificate System, with the server.

This CA issues certificates to the server, replicas, and hosts and services within the IdM domain.

The CA can be a root CA or it can have its policies defined by another, external CA (so that it is _subordinate_ to that CA).

========================================================

# SSSD

The System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) is a platform application that caches credentials.

SSSD allows a local service to check with a local cache in SSSD; the cache may be taken from any variety of remote identity providers, including Identity Management.

SSSD can cache user names and passwords, Kerberos principals and keytabs, automount maps, sudo rules that are defined on IPA servers, and SSH keys that are used by Identity Management domain users and systems.

This cache can be set up to be stored on the IdM server, as well as be cached locally on servers.

SSSD allows certain cached entries to be refreshed in the background, so the entries are returned instantly because the back end keeps them updated at all times.

=========================================================




