
The Identity Management (IdM) domain consists of a group of machines that share the same configuration, policies, and identity stores. The shared properties allow the machines within the domain to be aware of each other and operate together.

From the perspective of IdM, the domain includes the following types of machines:

- IdM servers, which work as domain controllers
    
- IdM clients, which are enrolled with the servers

## Clients interact indirectly with IdM servers when they attempt to access domain resources.


========================================================

# IdM Clients

A client is simply any machine which is configured to operate within the IdM domain, using its Kerberos and DNS services, NTP settings, and certificate services.

A machine is required to use system configurations which direct it to use IdM services.

Platform Tools: SSSD

Other optional Tools: PAM, NSS, IdM command-line utilities. These must be installed on the client machine.

The client stores information in its cache(local storage), and IdM uses that cache to improve performance.

- Information is stored either in an **LDB database** (similar to LDAP) or the **local filesystem** (as XML files), depending on the _type_ of information.

- Identity information (about users, machines, and groups) is stored in the LDB database, which uses the same syntax as an LDAP directory. Keep in mind - This information is originally stored on the IdM SERVER.

- Policy information (sudo use) is propagated on the client by the IdM server. On the client, the policy information is stored in the filesystem in XML files which can be downloaded and converted into a native file for whatever service is being managed.

Can contain:

certmonger -- Monitors and renews certificates on the client. Can request new certs.
NSS
SSSD -- Interacts with Kerberos KDC and Directory Server

When a Red Hat Enterprise Linux client is added to the domain (_enrolled_), its SSSD and `certmonger` are configured to connect to the IdM server and the required Kerberos keytab and host certificates are created.

========================================================

# IdM Server

Policy information is more static than identity information, and it can include configuration for SELinux or sudo. These policies are set globally on the server and then are propagated to the clients.


Contains:

Kerberos KDC
Directory Server (User passwords, info stored)
DNS
Authentication Server
Ticket-granting Ticket
