

#### File Systems and Mount Points

Access the contents of a file system by mounting it on an empty directory. This directory is called a mount point. When the directory is mounted, use the `ls` command to list its contents. Many file systems are automatically mounted when the system boots.

#### File Systems, Storage, and Block Devices

A block device is a file that provides low-level access to storage devices. A block device must be optionally partitioned, and a file system that was created before the device can be mounted.

The `/dev` directory stores block device files, which RHEL creates automatically for all devices. In RHEL 9, the first detected SATA, SAS, SCSI, or USB hard drive is called the `/dev/sda` device; the second is the `/dev/sdb` device; and so on.


# Mount and Unmount File Systems

#### Identify a Block Device

A hot-pluggable storage device, whether a hard disk drive (HDD) or a solid-state device (SSD) in a server, or alternatively a USB storage device, might be plugged each time into a different port on a system. Use the `lsblk` command to list the details of a specified block device or of all the available devices.

#### Mount File System with the Partition Name

The following example mounts the `/dev/vda4` partition on the `/mnt/data` mount point.

```
[root@host ~]# mount /dev/vda4 /mnt/data
```

### Unmount File Systems

System shutdown and reboot procedures unmount all file systems automatically. All file-system data is flushed to the storage device, to ensure file-system data integrity.

### WARNING

File-system data uses memory cache during normal operation. You must unmount a removable drive's file systems before unplugging the drive. The unmount procedure flushes data to disk before releasing the drive.

The `umount` command uses the mount point as an argument to unmount a file system.

```
[root@host ~]# umount /mnt/data
```

Unmounting is not possible when the mounted file system is in use. For the `umount` command to succeed, all processes must stop accessing data under the mount point.

The `lsof` command lists all open files and the processes that are accessing the file system. The list helps to identify which processes are preventing the file system from successfully unmounting.

```
[root@host data]# lsof /mnt/data
COMMAND  PID USER   FD   TYPE DEVICE SIZE/OFF NODE NAME
bash    1593 root  cwd    DIR 253,17        6  128 /mnt/data
lsof    2532 root  cwd    DIR 253,17       19  128 /mnt/data
lsof    2533 root  cwd    DIR 253,17       19  128 /mnt/data
```

