

The default user shell in Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) is the `GNU Bourne-Again Shell` (`bash`). The `bash` shell is an improved version of the original `Bourne Shell` (`sh`) on UNIX systems.

The shell displays a string when it is waiting for user input, called the _shell prompt_.

When a regular user starts a shell, the prompt includes an ending dollar (`$`) character:

``[user@host ~]$

A hash (`#`) character replaces the dollar (`$`) character when the shell is running as the superuser, `root`. This character indicates that it is a superuser shell, which helps to avoid mistakes that can affect the whole system.

`[root@host ~]#`

# Log in to a Local System

A hardware keyboard and display for input and output might be directly connected to the computer. This is the _physical console_ from the Linux machine. The physical console supports multiple _virtual consoles_, which can run on separate terminals.

Each virtual console supports an independent login session. You can switch between the virtual consoles by pressing **Ctrl**+**Alt** and a function key (**F1** through **F6**) at the same time.

In Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9, if the graphical environment is available, then the login screen runs on the first virtual console, which is called `tty1`. Five additional text login prompts are available on virtual consoles two (`tty2`) through six (`tty6`).


# Log into a Remote System

`[user@host ~]$ ssh -i mylab.pem remoteuser@remotehost`

The `ssh` command `-i` option is used to specify the user's private key file, which is `mylab.pem`. The matching public key is already set up as an authorized key in the `remoteuser` account.

For the connection to work, only the user who owns the file can have access to read the private key file.

