
Systemd = daemon

Manages startup process.

_Daemons_ are processes that either wait or run in the background, to perform various tasks.

A _service_ in the `systemd` sense often refers to one or more daemons.

In Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the first process that starts (PID 1) is the `systemd` daemon

A `systemd` _unit_ is an abstract concept to define objects that the system knows how to manage.

Units are represented by configuration files called _unit files_, which encapsulate information about system services, listening sockets, and other relevant objects for the `systemd` init system.

- A unit has a name and a unit type.

- _Service units_ have a `.service` extension and represent system services. You can use service units to start often-accessed daemons, such as a web server.

- _Socket units_ have a `.socket` extension and represent inter-process communication (IPC) sockets that `systemd` should monitor. If a client connects to the socket, then the `systemd` manager starts a daemon and passes the connection to it.

- _Path units_ have a `.path` extension and delay the activation of a service until a specific file-system change occurs. You can use path units for services that use spool directories, such as a printing system.

List all active units:

```
systemctl list-units --type=service
```

List the enabled or disabled states of all service units:

```
systemctl list-unit-files --type=service
```

Verify Status:

```
systemctl is-active sshd.service
```

```
systemctl is-enabled sshd
```

Reload after configuration changes:

```
 systemctl reload sshd.service
```

List dependencies:

```
systemctl list-dependencies sshd.service
```

Enable and start a service:

```
systemctl enable --now sshd.service
```

