
A firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls the incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted, secure internal network and another outside network.

On Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, the firewall is provided by the `firewalld` service, which is automatically enabled during the installation of Red Hat Enterprise Linux.

# You can display the current status of `firewalld` even as a regular user:

`~]$ systemctl status firewalld`

SELinux (Security Enhanced Linux)

**Security Enhanced Linux (SELinux)** is an additional layer of system security that determines which process can access which files, directories, and ports.

When **SELinux** is disabled, only Discretionary Access Control (DAC) rules are used.

When **SELinux** is enabled, it can run in one of the following modes:

- Enforcing
- Permissive

Enforcing mode means that **SELinux** policies is enforced. **SELinux** denies access based on **SELinux** policy rules, and enables only the interactions that are particularly allowed. Enforcing mode is the default mode after the installation and it is also the safest **SELinux** mode.

Permissive mode means that **SELinux** policies is not enforced. **SELinux** does not deny access, but denials are logged for actions that would have been denied if running in enforcing mode. Permissive mode is the default mode during the installation. Operating in permissive mode is also useful in some specific cases, for example if you require access to the Access Vector Cache (AVC) denials when troubleshooting problems.

# Display the current **SELinux** mode in effect:

`~]$ getenforce`


