
Secure Shell (SSH) is a protocol which facilitates client-server communication and allows users to log in to any host system running SSH remotely. SSH encrypts the connection.

The client transmits its authentication information to the server using encryption, and all data sent and received during a session are transferred under the encryption.

SSH enables its users to authenticate without a password. To do so, SSH uses a private-public key scheme.

To be able to use SSH connection, create a pair of two keys consisting of a public and a private key.

**Creating the Key Files and Copying Them to the Server**

# Generate a public and a private key:

~]$ ssh-keygen

Both keys are stored in the `~/.ssh/` directory:

- `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` - public key
- `~/.ssh/id_rsa` - private key

The public key does not need to be secret. It is used to verify the private key. The private key is secret. You can choose to protect the private key with the passphrase that you specify during the key generation process. With the passphrase, authentication is even more secure, but is no longer password-less.

You can avoid this using the `ssh-agent` command. In this case, you will enter the passphrase only once - at the beginning of a session.

# Copy the most recently modified public key to a remote machine you want to log into:

``~]# ssh-copy-id USER@hostname

As a result, you are now able to enter the system in a secure way, but without entering a password.

#### 1.6.3.3. Disabling SSH Root Login

To increase system security, you can disable SSH access for the `root` user, which is enabled by default.

**Disabling SSH Root Login**

1. Access the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file:
    
    ``~]# vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    
2. Change the line that reads `#PermitRootLogin yes` to:
    
    `PermitRootLogin no
    
3. Restart the `sshd` service:
    
    ``~]# systemctl restart sshd

