- _Socket-based activation_ — At boot time, systemd creates listening sockets for all system services that support this type of activation, and passes the sockets to these services as soon as they are started. This not only allows systemd to start services in parallel, but also makes it possible to restart a service without losing any message sent to it while it is unavailable: the corresponding socket remains accessible and all messages are queued.
    
    Systemd uses _socket units_ for socket-based activation.

- _Bus-based activation_ — System services that use D-Bus for inter-process communication can be started on-demand the first time a client application attempts to communicate with them. Systemd uses _D-Bus service files_ for bus-based activation.

The `systemctl` utility does not support custom commands. In addition to standard commands such as `start`, `stop`, and `status`, authors of SysV init scripts could implement support for any number of arbitrary commands in order to provide additional functionality.

The `systemctl` utility does not communicate with services that have not been started by systemd.

When systemd starts a system service, it stores the ID of its main process in order to keep track of it. The `systemctl` utility then uses this PID to query and manage the service. Consequently, if a user starts a particular daemon directly on the command line, `systemctl` is unable to determine its current status or stop it.

- Systemd stops only running services. Previously, when the shutdown sequence was initiated, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and earlier releases of the system used symbolic links located in the `/etc/rc0.d/` directory to stop all available system services regardless of their status. With systemd, only running services are stopped on shutdown.
- System services are unable to read from the standard input stream. When systemd starts a service, it connects its standard input to `/dev/null` to prevent any interaction with the user.
- All operations on service units are subject to a default timeout of 5 minutes to prevent a malfunctioning service from freezing the system.
- 