In Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, the `systemctl` utility replaces a number of power management commands used in previous versions of the Red Hat Enterprise Linux system.

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|`halt`|`systemctl halt`|Halts the system.|
|`poweroff`|`systemctl poweroff`|Powers off the system.|
|`reboot`|`systemctl reboot`|Restarts the system.|
|`pm-suspend`|`systemctl suspend`|Suspends the system.|
|`pm-hibernate`|`systemctl hibernate`|Hibernates the system.|
|`pm-suspend-hybrid`|`systemctl hybrid-sleep`|Hibernates and suspends the system.|

To suspend the system, type the following at a shell prompt as `root`:

```
systemctl suspend
```

This command saves the system state in RAM and with the exception of the RAM module, powers off most of the devices in the machine. When you turn the machine back on, the system then restores its state from RAM without having to boot again. Because the system state is saved in RAM and not on the hard disk, restoring the system from suspend mode is significantly faster than restoring it from hibernation, but as a consequence, a suspended system state is also vulnerable to power outages.

To hibernate the system, type the following at a shell prompt as `root`:

```
systemctl hibernate
```

This command saves the system state on the hard disk drive and powers off the machine. When you turn the machine back on, the system then restores its state from the saved data without having to boot again. Because the system state is saved on the hard disk and not in RAM, the machine does not have to maintain electrical power to the RAM module, but as a consequence, restoring the system from hibernation is significantly slower than restoring it from suspend mode.

n addition to controlling the systemd system and service manager locally, the `systemctl` utility also allows you to interact with systemd running on a remote machine over the SSH protocol. Provided that the `sshd` service on the remote machine is running, you can connect to this machine by running the `systemctl` command with the `--host` or `-H` command line option:

```
systemctl --host user_name@host_name command
```

Note that the remote machine must be configured to allow the selected user remote access over the SSH protocol.

To log in to a remote machine named `server-01.example.com` as the `root` user and determine the current status of the `httpd.service` unit, type the following at a shell prompt:

```
$ systemctl -H root@server-01.example.com status httpd.service
```
