Creating and Modifying systemd Unit Files

A unit file contains configuration directives that describe the unit and define its behavior. Several `systemctl` commands work with unit files in the background. To make finer adjustments, system administrator must edit or create unit files manually.

The `/etc/systemd/system/` directory is reserved for unit files created or customized by the system administrator.

Unit file names take the following form:

`unit_name.type_extension

Unit files can be supplemented with a directory for additional configuration files. For example, to add custom configuration options to `sshd.service`, create the `sshd.service.d/custom.conf` file and insert additional directives there.


Here is an Example of the postfix.service unit file:

```
[Unit]
Description=Postfix Mail Transport Agent
After=syslog.target network.target
Conflicts=sendmail.service exim.service

[Service]
Type=forking
PIDFile=/var/spool/postfix/pid/master.pid
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/network
ExecStartPre=-/usr/libexec/postfix/aliasesdb
ExecStartPre=-/usr/libexec/postfix/chroot-update
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/postfix start
ExecReload=/usr/sbin/postfix reload
ExecStop=/usr/sbin/postfix stop

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

After = Defines the order in which units are started. The unit starts only after the units specified in After are active.

The [Unit] section describes the service, specifies the ordering dependencies, as well as conflicting units. In [Service], a sequence of custom scripts is specified to be executed during unit activation, on stop, and on reload. `EnvironmentFile` points to the location where environment variables for the service are defined, `PIDFile` specifies a stable PID for the main process of the service. Finally, the [Install] section lists units that depend on the service.

