`SSH` (Secure Shell) is a protocol which facilitates secure communications between two systems using a client-server architecture and allows users to log in to server host systems remotely. Unlike other remote communication protocols, such as `FTP` or `Telnet`, SSH encrypts the login session, rendering the connection difficult for intruders to collect unencrypted passwords.

The **ssh** program is designed to replace older, less secure terminal applications used to log in to remote hosts, such as `telnet` or `rsh`. A related program called `scp` replaces older programs designed to copy files between hosts, such as `rcp`. Because these older applications do not encrypt passwords transmitted between the client and the server, avoid them whenever possible

Red Hat Enterprise Linux includes the general OpenSSH package, **openssh**, as well as the OpenSSH server, **openssh-server**, and client, **openssh-clients**, packages. Note, the OpenSSH packages require the OpenSSL package **openssl-libs**, which installs several important cryptographic libraries, enabling OpenSSH to provide encrypted communications.

Two varieties of SSH currently exist: version 1, and newer version 2. The OpenSSH suite under Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 uses SSH version 2, which has an enhanced key exchange algorithm not vulnerable to the known exploit in version 1. In Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, the OpenSSH suite does not support version 1 connections.


The following series of events help protect the integrity of SSH communication between two hosts.

1. A cryptographic handshake is made so that the client can verify that it is communicating with the correct server.
2. The transport layer of the connection between the client and remote host is encrypted using a symmetric cipher.
3. The client authenticates itself to the server.
4. The client interacts with the remote host over the encrypted connection.

# Transport Layer

The primary role of the transport layer is to facilitate safe and secure communication between the two hosts at the time of authentication and during subsequent communication.

The transport layer accomplishes this by handling the encryption and decryption of data, and by providing integrity protection of data packets as they are sent and received. The transport layer also provides compression, speeding the transfer of information.

Once an SSH client contacts a server, key information is exchanged so that the two systems can correctly construct the transport layer. The following steps occur during this exchange:

- Keys are exchanged
- The public key encryption algorithm is determined
- The symmetric encryption algorithm is determined
- The message authentication algorithm is determined
- The hash algorithm is determined


During the key exchange, the server identifies itself to the client with a unique _host key_. If the client has never communicated with this particular server before, the server’s host key is unknown to the client and it does not connect.

OpenSSH gets around this problem by accepting the server’s host key. This is done after the user is notified and has both accepted and verified the new host key.

In subsequent connections, the server’s host key is checked against the saved version on the client, providing confidence that the client is indeed communicating with the intended server. If, in the future, the host key no longer matches, the user must remove the client’s saved version before a connection can occur.

# Authentication

Once the transport layer has constructed a secure tunnel to pass information between the two systems, the server tells the client the different authentication methods supported, such as using a private key-encoded signature or typing a password. The client then tries to authenticate itself to the server using one of these supported methods.

SSH servers and clients can be configured to allow different types of authentication, which gives each side the optimal amount of control. The server can decide which encryption methods it supports based on its security model, and the client can choose the order of authentication methods to attempt from the available options.

# Channels

After a successful authentication over the SSH transport layer, multiple channels are opened via a technique called _multiplexing_

Each of these channels handles communication for different terminal sessions and for forwarded X11 sessions.

Both clients and servers can create a new channel. Each channel is then assigned a different number on each end of the connection. When the client attempts to open a new channel, the clients sends the channel number along with the request. This information is stored by the server and is used to direct communication to that channel. This is done so that different types of sessions do not affect one another and so that when a given session ends, its channel can be closed without disrupting the primary SSH connection.

