
Secure communication is based on the use of keys. In conventional or _symmetric cryptography_, both ends of the transaction have the same key they can use to decode each other’s transmissions.

On the other hand, in public or _asymmetric cryptography_, two keys co-exist: a _private key_ that is kept a secret, and a _public key_ that is usually shared with the public.

While the data encoded with the public key can only be decoded with the private key, data encoded with the private key can in turn only be decoded with the public key.

To provide secure communications using SSL, an SSL server must use a digital certificate signed by a _Certificate Authority_ (**CA**). The certificate lists various attributes of the server (that is, the server host name, the name of the company, its location, etc.), and the signature produced using the CA’s private key.


When a web browser establishes a new SSL connection, it checks the certificate provided by the web server. If the certificate does not have a signature from a trusted CA, or if the host name listed in the certificate does not match the host name used to establish the connection, it refuses to communicate with the server and usually presents a user with an appropriate error message.

By default, most web browsers are configured to trust a set of widely used certificate authorities. Because of this, an appropriate CA should be chosen when setting up a secure server, so that target users can trust the connection, otherwise they will be presented with an error message, and will have to accept the certificate manually.


When setting up an SSL server, you need to generate a certificate request and a private key, and then send the certificate request, proof of the company’s identity, and payment to a certificate authority. Once the CA verifies the certificate request and your identity, it will send you a signed certificate you can use with your server. Alternatively, you can create a self-signed certificate that does not contain a CA signature, and thus should be used for testing purposes only.

