# Using lsblk Command

The `lsblk` command allows you to display a list of available block devices. It provides more information and better control on output formatting than the `blkid` command. It reads information from **udev**, therefore it is usable by non-`root` users.

For each listed block device, the `lsblk` command displays the device name (`NAME`), major and minor device number (`MAJ:MIN`), if the device is removable (`RM`), its size (`SIZE`), if the device is read-only (`RO`), what type it is (`TYPE`), and where the device is mounted (`MOUNTPOINT`)

By default, `lsblk` lists block devices in a tree-like format. To display the information as an ordinary list, add the `-l` command line option:

```
lsblk -l
```

# Using findmnt Command

The `findmnt` command allows you to display a list of currently mounted file systems. To do so, type the following at a shell prompt:

```
findmnt
```

For each listed file system, the `findmnt` command displays the target mount point (`TARGET`), source device (`SOURCE`), file system type (`FSTYPE`), and relevant mount options (`OPTIONS`).

# Using the df Command

The `df` command allows you to display a detailed report on the system’s disk space usage.

For each listed file system, the `df` command displays its name (`Filesystem`), size (`1K-blocks` or `Size`), how much space is used (`Used`), how much space is still available (`Available`), the percentage of space usage (`Use%`), and where is the file system mounted (`Mounted on`)

By default, the `df` command shows the partition size in 1 kilobyte blocks and the amount of used and available disk space in kilobytes. To view the information in megabytes and gigabytes, supply the `-h` command line option, which causes `df` to display the values in a human-readable format

```
df -h
```

# Using the du Command


The `du` command allows you to displays the amount of space that is being used by files in a directory.

To display the disk usage for each of the subdirectories in the current working directory, run the command with no additional command line options:

```
du -h
```


Example:

```
~]$ du -h
15M   ./Downloads
4.0K  ./.mozilla/extensions
4.0K  ./.mozilla/plugins
12K   ./.mozilla
15M   .
```

At the end of the list, the `du` command always shows the grand total for the current directory.

To display only this information, supply the `-s` command line option:

```
du -sh
```

```
~]$ du -sh
15M   .
```



