
_Log files_ are files that contain messages about the system, including the kernel, services, and applications running on it. There are different log files for different information. For example, there is a default system log file, a log file just for security messages, and a log file for cron tasks.

Log files can be very useful when trying to troubleshoot a problem with the system such as trying to load a kernel driver or when looking for unauthorized login attempts to the system.

Some log files are controlled by a daemon called `rsyslogd`. The `rsyslogd` daemon is an enhanced replacement for **sysklogd**, and provides extended filtering, encryption protected relaying of messages, various configuration options, input and output modules, support for transportation via the `TCP` or `UDP` protocols.

Log files can also be managed by the `journald` daemon – a component of `systemd`. The `journald` daemon captures Syslog messages, kernel log messages, initial RAM disk and early boot messages as well as messages written to standard output and standard error output of all services, indexes them and makes this available to the user.

Log files produced by `journald` are by default not persistent, log files are stored only in memory or a small ring-buffer in the `/run/log/journal/` directory.

The amount of logged data depends on free memory, when you reach the capacity limit, the oldest entries are deleted.

By default, these two logging tools coexist on your system. The `journald` daemon is the primary tool for troubleshooting.

Data acquired by `journald` is forwarded into the `/run/systemd/journal/syslog` socket that may be used by `rsyslogd` to process the data further. However, **rsyslog** does the actual integration by default via the `imjournal` input module, thus avoiding the aforementioned socket.

You can also transfer data in the opposite direction, from `rsyslogd` to `journald` with use of `omjournal` module.

 The integration enables maintaining text-based logs in a consistent format to ensure compatibility with possible applications or configurations dependent on `rsyslogd`.



