
The Journal is a component of **systemd** that is responsible for viewing and management of log files. It can be used in parallel, or in place of a traditional syslog daemon, such as `rsyslogd`.

Logging data is collected, stored, and processed by the Journal’s `journald` service. It creates and maintains binary files called _journals_ based on logging information that is received from the kernel, from user processes, from standard output, and standard error output of system services or via its native API.

 The `journald` service collects numerous meta data fields for each log message. The actual journal files are secured, and therefore cannot be manually edited.

### Viewing Log Files

To access the journal logs, use the **journalctl** tool. For a basic view of the logs type as `root`:

```
journalctl
```

By default, **Journal** users without `root` privileges can only see log files generated by them.

When called without parameters, `journalctl` shows the full list of entries, starting with the oldest entry collected. With the live view, you can supervise the log messages in real time as new entries are continuously printed as they appear. To start **journalctl** in live view mode, type:

```
journalctl -f
```

Sort Logs by Priority:

```
journalctl -p priority
```

debug(7)
info(6)
notice(5)
warning(4)
err(3)
crit(2)
alert(1)
emerg(0)

To view only entries with _error_ or higher priority, use:

```
journalctl -p err
```

By default, **Journal** stores log files only in memory or a small ring-buffer in the `/run/log/journal/` directory. This is sufficient to show recent log history with `journalctl`. This directory is volatile, log data is not saved permanently. With the default configuration, syslog reads the journal logs and stores them in the `/var/log/` directory. With persistent logging enabled, journal files are stored in `/var/log/journal` which means they persist after reboot. Journal can then replace **rsyslog** for some users (but see the chapter introduction).

