
`logrotate` takes current log files, renames them, optionally compress it, then create a fresh file to which an application can continue send its logs.

It is invoked automatically from cron. Most services have their own log rotation config when they're installed.


The following is a sample `/etc/logrotate.conf` configuration file:

```
# rotate log files weekly
weekly

# keep 4 weeks worth of backlogs
rotate 4

# uncomment this if you want your log files compressed
compress
```

All of the lines in the sample configuration file define global options that apply to every log file. In our example, log files are rotated weekly, rotated log files are kept for four weeks, and all rotated log files are compressed by **gzip** into the `.gz` format.

You may define configuration options for a specific log file and place it under the global options. However, it is advisable to create a separate configuration file for any specific log file in the `/etc/logrotate.d/` directory and define any configuration options there.

The following is an example of a configuration file placed in the `/etc/logrotate.d/` directory:

```
/var/log/messages {
  rotate 5
  weekly
  postrotate
  /usr/bin/killall -HUP syslogd
  endscript
}
```

The configuration options in this file are specific for the `/var/log/messages` log file only. The settings specified here override the global settings where possible. Thus the rotated `/var/log/messages` log file will be kept for five weeks instead of four weeks as was defined in the global options.

The following is a list of some of the directives you can specify in your **logrotate** configuration file:

- `weekly` — Specifies the rotation of log files to be done weekly. Similar directives include:
    
    - `daily`
    - `monthly`
    - `yearly`
    
- `compress` — Enables compression of rotated log files. Similar directives include:
    
    - `nocompress`
    - `compresscmd` — Specifies the command to be used for compressing.
    - `uncompresscmd`
    - `compressext` — Specifies what extension is to be used for compressing.
    - `compressoptions` — Specifies any options to be passed to the compression program used.
    - `delaycompress` — Postpones the compression of log files to the next rotation of log files.
-  `rotate INTEGER` — Specifies the number of rotations a log file undergoes before it is removed or mailed to a specific address. If the value 0 is specified, old log files are removed instead of rotated.
