
The main configuration file for **rsyslog** is `/etc/rsyslog.conf`. Here, you can specify _global directives_, _modules_, and _rules_ that consist of _filter_ and _action_ parts. Also, you can add comments in the form of text following a hash sign (`#`).

# Filters

A rule is specified by a _filter_ part, which selects a subset of syslog messages, and an _action_ part, which specifies what to do with the selected messages.

To define a rule in your `/etc/rsyslog.conf` configuration file, define both, a filter and an action, on one line and separate them with one or more spaces or tabs.

**rsyslog** offers various ways to filter syslog messages according to selected properties. The available filtering methods can be divided into _Facility/Priority-based_, _Property-based_, and _Expression-based_ filters.

# Facility/Priority-based filters

The most used and well-known way to filter syslog messages is to use the facility/priority-based filters which filter syslog messages based on two conditions: _facility_ and _priority_ separated by a dot. To create a selector, use the following syntax:

`FACILITY.PRIORITY`

Where:

- _FACILITY_ specifies the subsystem that produces a specific syslog message. For example, the `mail` subsystem handles all mail-related syslog messages. _FACILITY_ can be represented by one of the following keywords (or by a numerical code): `kern` (0), `user` (1), `mail` (2), `daemon` (3), `auth` (4), `syslog` (5), `lpr` (6), `news` (7), `cron` (8), `authpriv` (9), `ftp` (10), and `local0` through `local7` (16 - 23).

- _PRIORITY_ specifies a priority of a syslog message. _PRIORITY_ can be represented by one of the following keywords (or by a number): `debug` (7), `info` (6), `notice` (5), `warning` (4), `err` (3), `crit` (2), `alert` (1), and `emerg` (0).


Examples:

The following are a few examples of simple facility/priority-based filters that can be specified in `/etc/rsyslog.conf`. To select all kernel syslog messages with any priority, add the following text into the configuration file:

```
kern.*
```

To select all mail syslog messages with priority `crit` and higher, use this form:

```
mail.crit
```

To select all cron syslog messages except those with the `info` or `debug` priority, set the configuration in the following form:

```
cron.!info,!debug
```

# Property-based filters

Property-based filters let you filter syslog messages by any property, such as `timegenerated` or `syslogtag`.


Property-based filter must start with a colon (`:`). To define the filter, use the following syntax:

```
:PROPERTY, [!]COMPARE_OPERATION, "STRING"
```

where:

- The _PROPERTY_ attribute specifies the desired property.
- The optional exclamation point (`!`) negates the output of the compare-operation. Other Boolean operators are currently not supported in property-based filters.
- The _COMPARE_OPERATION_ attribute specifies one of the compare-operations
- The _STRING_ attribute specifies the value that the text provided by the property is compared to. This value must be enclosed in quotation marks. To escape certain character inside the string (for example a quotation mark (`"`)), use the backslash character (`\`).

Examples:

The following are a few examples of property-based filters that can be specified in `/etc/rsyslog.conf`. To select syslog messages which contain the string `error` in their message text, use:

```
:msg, contains, "error"
```

The following filter selects syslog messages received from the host name `host1`:

```
:hostname, isequal, "host1"
```

To select syslog messages which do not contain any mention of the words `fatal` and `error` with any or no text between them (for example, `fatal lib error`), type:

```
:msg, !regex, "fatal .* error"
```

========================================================


# Actions

Actions specify what is to be done with the messages filtered out by an already defined selector. The following are some of the actions you can define in your rule:

Saving syslog messages to log files

The majority of actions specify to which log file a syslog message is saved. This is done by specifying a file path after your already-defined selector:

```
FILTER PATH
```

where _FILTER_ stands for user-specified selector and _PATH_ is a path of a target file.

For instance, the following rule is comprised of a selector that selects all **cron** syslog messages and an action that saves them into the `/var/log/cron.log` log file:

```
cron.* /var/log/cron.log
```

By default, the log file is synchronized every time a syslog message is generated.


