
Modern operating systems distinguish between the following two types of clocks:

- A _real-time clock_ (**RTC**), commonly referred to as a _hardware clock_, (typically an integrated circuit on the system board) that is completely independent of the current state of the operating system and runs even when the computer is shut down.

- A _system clock_, also known as a _software clock_, that is maintained by the kernel and its initial value is based on the real-time clock. Once the system is booted and the system clock is initialized, the system clock is completely independent of the real-time clock.

The system time is always kept in _Coordinated Universal Time_ (**UTC**) and converted in applications to local time as needed. _Local time_ is the actual time in your current time zone, taking into account _daylight saving time_ (**DST**). The real-time clock can use either UTC or local time. UTC is recommended.

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 offers three command line tools that can be used to configure and display information about the system date and time:

- The `timedatectl` utility, which is new in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 and is part of `systemd`.
- The traditional `date` command.
- The `hwclock` utility for accessing the hardware clock.

=========================================================

The **timedatectl** utility is distributed as part of the `systemd` system and service manager and allows you to review and change the configuration of the system clock. You can use this tool to change the current date and time, set the time zone, or enable automatic synchronization of the system clock with a remote server.

To display the current date and time along with detailed information about the configuration of the system and hardware clock, run the `timedatectl` command with no additional command line options:

```none
timedatectl
```

This displays the local and universal time, the currently used time zone, the status of the Network Time Protocol (`NTP`) configuration, and additional information related to DST.

Changes to the status of `chrony` or `ntpd` will not be immediately noticed by `timedatectl`. If changes to the configuration or status of these tools is made, enter the following command:

``~]# systemctl restart systemd-timedated.service

### 3.1.5. Synchronizing the System Clock with a Remote Server

As opposed to the manual adjustments described in the previous sections, the `timedatectl` command also allows you to enable automatic synchronization of your system clock with a group of remote servers using the `NTP` protocol. Enabling NTP enables the `chronyd` or `ntpd` service, depending on which of them is installed.

The `NTP` service can be enabled and disabled using a command as follows:

```
timedatectl set-ntp [yes] [no]
```

To enable your system to synchronize the system clock with a remote `NTP` server, replace _boolean_ with `yes` (the default option). To disable this feature, replace _boolean_ with `no`.

**Example 3.5. Synchronizing the System Clock with a Remote Server**

To enable automatic synchronization of the system clock with a remote server, type:

``~]# timedatectl set-ntp yes

The command will fail if an `NTP` service is not installed.

=========================================================

**Example 3.6. Displaying the Current Date and Time**

To display the current date and local time, type the following at a shell prompt:

~]$ `date`
Mon Sep 16 17:30:24 CEST 2016

To display the current date and time in UTC, type the following at a shell prompt:

~]$ `date --utc`
Mon Sep 16 15:30:34 UTC 2016

To customize the output of the `date` command, type:

~]$ date +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M"
2016-09-16 17:30

=========================================================

## 3.3. Using the `hwclock` Command

`hwclock` is a utility for accessing the hardware clock, also referred to as the Real Time Clock (RTC). The hardware clock is independent of the operating system you use and works even when the machine is shut down. This utility is used for displaying the time from the hardware clock. `hwclock` also contains facilities for compensating for systematic drift in the hardware clock.

The hardware clock stores the values of: year, month, day, hour, minute, and second. It is not able to store the time standard, local time or Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), nor set the Daylight Saving Time (DST).

The `hwclock` utility saves its settings in the `/etc/adjtime` file, which is created with the first change you make, for example, when you set the time manually or synchronize the hardware clock with the system time.

