
While users can be either people (meaning accounts tied to physical users) or accounts that exist for specific applications to use, groups are logical expressions of organization, tying users together for a common purpose. Users within a group share the same permissions to read, write, or execute files owned by that group.

Each user is associated with a unique numerical identification number called a _user ID_ (**UID**). Likewise, each group is associated with a _group ID_ (**GID**). A user who creates a file is also the owner and group owner of that file. The file is assigned separate read, write, and execute permissions for the owner, the group, and everyone else. The file owner can be changed only by `root`, and access permissions can be changed by both the `root` user and file owner.

Additionally, Red Hat Enterprise Linux supports _access control lists_ (**ACLs**) for files and directories which allow permissions for specific users outside of the owner to be set.

#### Reserved User and Group IDs

Red Hat Enterprise Linux reserves user and group IDs below 1000 for system users and groups. By default, the **User Manager** does not display the system users.

The recommended practice is to assign IDs starting at 5,000 that were not already reserved, as the reserved range can increase in the future. To make the IDs assigned to new users by default start at 5,000, change the `UID_MIN` and `GID_MIN` directives in the `/etc/login.defs` file:
```
[file contents truncated]
UID_MIN         5000
[file contents truncated]
GID_MIN         5000
[file contents truncated]
```
For users created before you changed `UID_MIN` and `GID_MIN` directives, UIDs will still start at the default 1000.

Even with new user and group IDs beginning with 5,000, it is recommended not to raise IDs reserved by the system above 1000 to avoid conflict with systems that retain the 1000 limit.

========================================================

Red Hat Enterprise Linux uses a _user private group_ (_UPG_) scheme, which makes UNIX groups easier to manage. A user private group is created whenever a new user is added to the system. It has the same name as the user for which it was created and that user is the only member of the user private group.

User private groups make it safe to set default permissions for a newly created file or directory, allowing both the user and _the group of that user_ to make modifications to the file or directory.

The setting which determines what permissions are applied to a newly created file or directory is called a _umask_ and is configured in the `/etc/bashrc` file.

Traditionally on UNIX-based systems, the `umask` is set to `022`, which allows only the user who created the file or directory to make modifications. Under this scheme, all other users, _including members of the creator’s group_, are not allowed to make any modifications.

========================================================

In environments with multiple users, it is very important to use _shadow passwords_ provided by the **shadow-utils** package to enhance the security of system authentication files. For this reason, the installation program enables shadow passwords by default.

The following is a list of the advantages shadow passwords have over the traditional way of storing passwords on UNIX-based systems:

- Shadow passwords improve system security by moving encrypted password hashes from the world-readable `/etc/passwd` file to `/etc/shadow`, which is readable only by the `root` user.
- Shadow passwords store information about password aging.
- Shadow passwords allow to enforce some of the security policies set in the `/etc/login.defs` file.
========================================================

|Utilities|Description|
|:--|:--|
|`id`|Displays user and group IDs.|
|`useradd`, `usermod`, `userdel`|Standard utilities for adding, modifying, and deleting user accounts.|
|`groupadd`, `groupmod`, `groupdel`|Standard utilities for adding, modifying, and deleting groups.|
|`gpasswd`|Utility primarily used for modification of group password in the `/etc/gshadow` file which is used by the `newgrp` command.|
|`pwck`, `grpck`|Utilities that can be used for verification of the password, group, and associated shadow files.|
|`pwconv`, `pwunconv`|Utilities that can be used for the conversion of passwords to shadow passwords, or back from shadow passwords to standard passwords.|
|`grpconv`, `grpunconv`|Similar to the previous, these utilities can be used for conversion of shadowed information for group accounts.|

=========================================================

To add a new user to the system, type the following at a shell prompt as `root`:

```none
useradd [options] [username]
```


By default, the `useradd` command creates a locked user account. To unlock the account, run the following command as `root` to assign a password:

```none
passwd [username]
```

Common useradd options:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|`-c` '_comment_'|_comment_ can be replaced with any string. This option is generally used to specify the full name of a user.|
|`-d` _home_directory_|Home directory to be used instead of default `/home/_username_/`.|
|`-e` _date_|Date for the account to be disabled in the format YYYY-MM-DD.|
|`-f` _days_|Number of days after the password expires until the account is disabled. If `0` is specified, the account is disabled immediately after the password expires. If `-1` is specified, the account is not disabled after the password expires.|
|`-g` _group_name_|Group name or group number for the user’s default (primary) group. The group must exist prior to being specified here.|
|`-G` _group_list_|List of additional (supplementary, other than default) group names or group numbers, separated by commas, of which the user is a member. The groups must exist prior to being specified here.|
|`-m`|Create the home directory if it does not exist.|
|`-M`|Do not create the home directory.|
|`-N`|Do not create a user private group for the user.|
|`-p` _password_|The password encrypted with `crypt`.|
|`-r`|Create a system account with a UID less than 1000 and without a home directory.|
|`-s`|User’s login shell, which defaults to `/bin/bash`.|
|`-u` _uid_|User ID for the user, which must be unique and greater than 999.|


The default range of IDs for system and normal users has been changed in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 from earlier releases. Previously, UID 1-499 was used for system users and values above for normal users. The default range for system users is now 1-999.


**Explaining the Process**

The following steps illustrate what happens if the command `useradd juan` is issued on a system that has shadow passwords enabled:

1. A new line for `juan` is created in `/etc/passwd`:
    
    juan:x:1001:1001::/home/juan:/bin/bash
    
    The line has the following characteristics:
    
    - It begins with the user name `juan`.
    
    - There is an `x` for the password field indicating that the system is using shadow passwords.
    
    - A UID greater than 999 is created. Under Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, UIDs below 1000 are reserved for system use and should not be assigned to users.
    
    - A GID greater than 999 is created. Under Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, GIDs below 1000 are reserved for system use and should not be assigned to users.
    
    - The optional _GECOS_ information is left blank. The GECOS field can be used to provide additional information about the user, such as their full name or phone number.
    
    - The home directory for `juan` is set to `/home/juan/`.
    
    - The default shell is set to `/bin/bash`.


A new line for `juan` is created in `/etc/shadow`:

`juan:!!:14798:0:99999:7:::

The line has the following characteristics:

- It begins with the user name `juan`.
- Two exclamation marks (`!!`) appear in the password field of the `/etc/shadow` file, which locks the account.
-  The password is set to never expire.

A new line for a group named `juan` is created in `/etc/group`:

``juan:x:1001:

A group with the same name as a user is called a _user private group_.

The line created in `/etc/group` has the following characteristics:

- It begins with the group name `juan`.
- An `x` appears in the password field indicating that the system is using shadow group passwords.
- The GID matches the one listed for `juan`'s primary group in `/etc/passwd`.

A directory for user `juan` is created in the `/home` directory

This directory is owned by user `juan` and group `juan`. It has _read_, _write_, and _execute_ privileges _only_ for the user `juan`. All other permissions are denied.

1. The files within the `/etc/skel/` directory (which contain default user settings) are copied into the new `/home/juan/` directory:
 ```
~]# ls -la /home/juan
    total 28
    drwx------. 4 juan juan 4096 Mar 3 18:23 .
    drwxr-xr-x. 5 root root 4096 Mar 3 18:23 ..
    -rw-r--r--. 1 juan juan  18 Jun 22 2010 .bash_logout
    -rw-r--r--. 1 juan juan 176 Jun 22 2010 .bash_profile
    -rw-r--r--. 1 juan juan 124 Jun 22 2010 .bashrc
    drwxr-xr-x. 4 juan juan 4096 Nov 23 15:09 .mozilla
```

At this point, a locked account called `juan` exists on the system. To activate it, the administrator must next assign a password to the account using the `passwd` command and, optionally, set password aging guidelines

========================================================

When a process creates a file, the file has certain default permissions, for example, `-rw-rw-r--`. These initial permissions are partially defined by the _file mode creation mask_, also called _file permission mask_ or _umask_. Every process has its own umask, for example, **bash** has _umask_ `0022` by default. Process _umask_ can be changed.

A _umask_ consists of bits corresponding to standard file permissions. For example, for _umask_ `0137`, the digits mean that:

- `0` = no meaning, it is always `0` (umask does not affect special bits)
- `1` = for owner permissions, the execute bit is set
- `3` = for group permissions, the execute and write bits are set
- `7` = for others permissions, the execute, write, and read bits are set

_Umasks_ can be represented in binary, octal, or symbolic notation. For example, the octal representation `0137` equals symbolic representation `u=rw-,g=r--,o=---`. Symbolic notation specification is the reverse of the octal notation specification: it shows the allowed permissions, not the prohibited permissions.

