Accessing the system as the `root` user is potentially dangerous and can lead to widespread damage to the system and data. This chapter covers ways to gain administrative privileges using the `setuid` programs such as `su` and `sudo`. 

These programs allow specific users to perform tasks which would normally be available only to the `root` user while maintaining a higher level of control and system security.

When a user executes the `su` command, they are prompted for the `root` password and, after authentication, are given a `root` shell prompt.

Once logged in using the `su` command, the user _is_ the `root` user and has absolute administrative access to the system. Note that this access is still subject to the restrictions imposed by SELinux, if it is enabled.

In addition, once a user has become `root`, it is possible for them to use the `su` command to change to any other user on the system without being prompted for a password.

Because this program is so powerful, administrators within an organization may want to limit who has access to the command.

One of the simplest ways to do this is to add users to the special administrative group called _wheel_. To do this, type the following command as `root`:

```
~]# usermod -a -G wheel username
```


After you add the desired users to the `wheel` group, it is advisable to only allow these specific users to use the `su` command. To do this, edit the _Pluggable Authentication Module_ (PAM) configuration file for `su`, `/etc/pam.d/su`. Open this file in a text editor and uncomment the following line by removing the `#` character:

`#auth      required    pam_wheel.so use_uid

This change means that only members of the administrative group `wheel` can switch to another user using the `su` command.

========================================================

The `sudo` command offers another approach to giving users administrative access. When trusted users precede an administrative command with `sudo`, they are prompted for _their own_ password.

Then, when they have been authenticated and assuming that the command is permitted, the administrative command is executed as if they were the `root` user.

The basic format of the `sudo` command is as follows:

```none
sudo [command]
```

In the above example, _command_ would be replaced by a command normally reserved for the `root` user, such as `mount`.

The `sudo` command allows for a high degree of flexibility. For instance, only users listed in the `/etc/sudoers` configuration file are allowed to use the `sudo` command and the command is executed in _the user’s_ shell, not a `root` shell. This means the `root` shell can be completely disabled as shown in the _Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 Security Guide_.


Each successful authentication using the `sudo` command is logged to the file `/var/log/messages` and the command issued along with the issuer’s user name is logged to the file `/var/log/secure`. If additional logging is required, use the `pam_tty_audit` module to enable TTY auditing for specified users by adding the following line to your `/etc/pam.d/system-auth` file:

`session required pam_tty_audit.so disable=[pattern] enable=[pattern]

where _pattern_ represents a comma-separated listing of users with an optional use of globs. For example, the following configuration will enable TTY auditing for the `root` user and disable it for all other users:

`session required pam_tty_audit.so disable=* enable=root

	Configuring the `pam_tty_audit` PAM module for TTY auditing records only TTY input. This means that, when the audited user logs in, `pam_tty_audit` records the exact keystrokes the user makes into the `/var/log/audit/audit.log` file. For more information, see the pam_tty_audit(8) manual page.


Another advantage of the `sudo` command is that an administrator can allow different users access to specific commands based on their needs.

Administrators wanting to edit the `sudo` configuration file, `/etc/sudoers`, should use the `visudo` command.

To give someone full administrative privileges, type `visudo` and add a line similar to the following in the user privilege specification section:

juan ALL=(ALL) ALL

This example states that the user, `juan`, can use `sudo` from any host and execute any command.



The example below illustrates the granularity possible when configuring `sudo`:

``%users localhost=/usr/sbin/shutdown -h now

This example states that any member of the `users` system group can issue the command `/sbin/shutdown -h now` as long as it is issued from the console.

You can also configure sudo users who do not need to provide any password by using the `NOPASSWD` option in the `/etc/sudoers` file:

_user_name_ ALL=(ALL)	NOPASSWD: ALL

=========================================================

There are several potential risks to keep in mind when using the `sudo` command. You can avoid them by editing the `/etc/sudoers` configuration file using `visudo` as described above. Leaving the `/etc/sudoers` file in its default state gives every user in the `wheel` group unlimited `root` access.

- By default, `sudo` stores the password for a five minute timeout period. Any subsequent uses of the command during this period will not prompt the user for a password. This could be exploited by an attacker if the user leaves his workstation unattended and unlocked while still being logged in. This behavior can be changed by adding the following line to the `/etc/sudoers` file:
    
    Defaults  timestamp_timeout=_value_
    
    where _value_ is the desired timeout length in minutes. Setting the _value_ to 0 causes `sudo` to require a password every time.

- If an account is compromised, an attacker can use `sudo` to open a new shell with administrative privileges:
    
    ```none
    sudo /bin/bash
    ```
    
    Opening a new shell as `root` in this or similar fashion gives the attacker administrative access for a theoretically unlimited amount of time, bypassing the timeout period specified in the `/etc/sudoers` file and never requiring the attacker to input a password for `sudo` again until the newly opened session is closed.






