**Yum** is the Red Hat package manager that is able to query for information about available packages, fetch packages from repositories, install and uninstall them, and update an entire system to the latest available version. Yum performs automatic dependency resolution when updating, installing, or removing packages, and thus is able to automatically determine, fetch, and install all available dependent packages.

Yum can be configured with new, additional repositories, or _package sources_, and also provides many plug-ins which enhance and extend its capabilities. Yum is able to perform many of the same tasks that **RPM** can; additionally, many of the command-line options are similar.


Important

Yum provides secure package management by enabling GPG (Gnu Privacy Guard; also known as GnuPG) signature verification on GPG-signed packages to be turned on for all package repositories (package sources), or for individual repositories. When signature verification is enabled, yum will refuse to install any packages not GPG-signed with the correct key for that repository. This means that you can trust that the **RPM** packages you download and install on your system are from a trusted source, such as Red Hat, and were not modified during transfer. 

Yum also enables you to easily set up your own repositories of **RPM** packages for download and installation on other machines. When possible, yum uses _parallel download_ of multiple packages and metadata to speed up downloading.

Learning yum is a worthwhile investment because it is often the fastest way to perform system administration tasks, and it provides capabilities beyond those provided by the **PackageKit** graphical package management tools.

======================================================
To see which installed packages on your system have updates available, use the following command:

```none
yum check-update
```

The output also shows that we can update the kernel (the **kernel** package), yum and RPM themselves (the **yum** and **rpm** packages), as well as their dependencies (such as the **rpm-libs**, and **rpm-python** packages), all using the `yum` command.

=====================================================

You can choose to update a single package, multiple packages, or all packages at once. If any dependencies of the package or packages you update have updates available themselves, then they are updated too.

**Updating All Packages and Their Dependencies**

To update all packages and their dependencies, use the `yum update` command without any arguments:

```none
yum update
```

**Automating Package Updating**

To refresh the package database and download updates automatically, you can use the `yum-cron` service.

=======================================================

For systems that are disconnected from the Internet or Red Hat Network, using the `yum update` command with the Red Hat Enterprise Linux installation ISO image is an easy and quick way to upgrade systems to the latest minor version. The following steps illustrate the upgrading process:


1. Create a target directory to mount your ISO image. This directory is not automatically created when mounting, so create it before proceeding to the next step. As `root`, type:
    
    mkdir _mount_dir_
    
    Replace _mount_dir_ with a path to the mount directory. Typically, users create it as a subdirectory in the `/media` directory.


2. Mount the Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 installation ISO image to the previously created target directory. As `root`, type:
    
    mount -o loop _iso_name_ _mount_dir_
    
    Replace _iso_name_ with a path to your ISO image and _mount_dir_ with a path to the target directory. Here, the `-o` `loop` option is required to mount the file as a block device.


3. Copy the `media.repo` file from the mount directory to the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory. Note that configuration files in this directory must have the _.repo_ extension to function properly.
    
    cp `mount_dir/media.repo` `/etc/yum.repos.d/new.repo`
    
    This creates a configuration file for the yum repository. Replace _new.repo_ with the filename, for example _rhel7.repo_.


4. Edit the new configuration file so that it points to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux installation ISO. Add the following line into the `/etc/yum.repos.d/new.repo` file:

```
baseurl=file:///[mount_dir]
```
   
Replace _mount_dir_ with a path to the mount point.

5. Update all yum repositories including `/etc/yum.repos.d/new.repo` created in previous steps. As `root`, type:
    
    ```
    yum update
    ```
    
    This upgrades your system to the version provided by the mounted ISO image.


6. After successful upgrade, you can unmount the ISO image. As `root`, type:
    ```
    umount [mount_dir]
    ```

    where _mount_dir_ is a path to your mount directory. Also, you can remove the mount directory created in the first step. As `root`, type:

    ```
    rmdir [mount_dir]
    ```

5. If you will not use the previously created configuration file for another installation or update, you can remove it. As `root`, type:

```
rm /etc/yum.repos.d/new.repo
```

=========================================================

# Listing Repositories

To list the repository ID, name, and number of packages for each _enabled_ repository on your system, use the following command:

```
yum repolist
```

`yum repolist all` will list both enabled and disabled repositories

# Display Package Information

```
yum info [package_name]
```

You can also query the yum database for alternative and useful information about a package by using the following command:

``yumdb info [package_name]

This command provides additional information about a package, including the check sum of the package (and the algorithm used to produce it, such as SHA-256), the command given on the command line that was invoked to install the package (if any), and the reason why the package is installed on the system (where `user` indicates it was installed by the user, and `dep` means it was brought in as a dependency).

# Installing Packages

To install a single package and all of its non-installed dependencies, enter a command in the following form as `root`:

```
yum install [package_name]
```

# Removing Packages

```
yum remove [package_name]
```

### Yum is not able to remove a package without also removing packages which depend on it. This type of operation, which can only be performed by **RPM**, is not advised, and can potentially leave your system in a non-functioning state or cause applications to not work correctly or crash.

