

The configuration information for yum and related utilities is located at `/etc/yum.conf`

This file contains one mandatory `[main]` section, which enables you to set yum options that have global effect, and can also contain one or more `[repository]` sections, which allow you to set repository-specific options.

However, it is recommended to define individual repositories in new or existing `.repo` files in the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory.

The values you define in individual `[repository]` sections of the `/etc/yum.conf` file override values set in the `[main]` section.

Sample `etc/yum.conf` configuration file:

```
[main]
cachedir=/var/cache/yum/$basearch/$releasever
keepcache=0
debuglevel=2
logfile=/var/log/yum.log
exactarch=1
obsoletes=1
gpgcheck=1
plugins=1
installonly_limit=3

[repositories]

# PUT YOUR REPOS HERE OR IN separate files named file.repo
# in /etc/yum.repos.d

# name=repository_name
# baseurl=http://path/to/repo
# OR
# baseurl=ftp://path/to/repo
# OR
# baseurl=file://path/to/local/repo
```

Commonly used options in `[main]` section:

`assumeyes`=_value_

The `assumeyes` option determines whether or not yum prompts for confirmation of critical actions. Replace _value_ with one of:

`0` (_default_) — yum prompts for confirmation of critical actions it performs.

`1` — Do not prompt for confirmation of critical `yum` actions. If `assumeyes=1` is set, yum behaves in the same way as the command-line options `-y` and `--assumeyes`.


`cachedir`=_directory_

Use this option to set the directory where yum stores its cache and database files. Replace _directory_ with an absolute path to the directory. By default, yum’s cache directory is `/var/cache/yum/$basearch/$releasever/`.

`$releasever`    (release version)

You can use this variable to reference the release version of RHEL. 

`$arch`

You can use this variable to refer to the system’s CPU architecture as returned when calling Python’s `os.uname()` function. Valid values for `$arch` include: `i586`, `i686` and `x86_64`.


`debuglevel`=_value_

This option specifies the detail of debugging output produced by yum. Here, _value_ is an integer between `1` and `10`. Setting a higher `debuglevel` value causes yum to display more detailed debugging output. `debuglevel=2` is the default, while `debuglevel=0` disables debugging output.

`gpgcheck`=_value_

Use the `gpgcheck` option to specify if yum should perform a GPG signature check on packages. Replace _value_ with:

`0` — Disable GPG signature-checking on packages in all repositories, including local package installation.

`1` (_default_) — Enable checking of GPG signature on all packages in all repositories, including local package installation. With `gpgcheck` enabled, all packages' signatures are checked.

If this option is set in the `[main]` section of the `/etc/yum.conf` file, it sets the GPG-checking rule for all repositories. However, you can also set `gpgcheck=[value]` for individual repositories instead; that is, you can enable GPG-checking on one repository while disabling it on another. Setting `gpgcheck=[value]` for an individual repository in its corresponding `.repo` file overrides the default if it is present in `/etc/yum.conf`.

`keepcache`=_value_

The `keepcache` option determines whether yum keeps the cache of headers and packages after successful installation. Here, _value_ is one of:

`0` (_default_) — Do not retain the cache of headers and packages after a successful installation.

`1` — Retain the cache after a successful installation.






=========================================================

# Display Global Yum Options

To display the current values of global yum options (that is, the options specified in the `[main]` section of the `/etc/yum.conf` file), execute the `yum-config-manager` command with no command-line options:

```
yum-config-manager
```

Example:

```
~]$ yum-config-manager main \*
Loaded plugins: langpacks, product-id, subscription-manager
================================== main ===================================
[main]
alwaysprompt = True
assumeyes = False
bandwith = 0
bugtracker_url = https://bugzilla.redhat.com/enter_bug.cgi?product=Red%20Hat%20Enterprise%20Linux%206&component=yum
cache = 0
[output truncated]
```

