
# 1. Access a shell prompt and issue commands with correct syntax

Option 1 (Gnome Desktop):

	super + click terminal icon

Option 2 (Gnome Keyboard Shortcut)
	`CTRL+ALT+T`


# 2. Use input-output redirection (>, >>, |, 2>, etc.)

Standard input (`stdin`) - Input to a command (keyboard)
Standard output (`stdout`) - Results of a command
Standard error (`stderr`) - Status messages

`ls -l /usr/bin > ls-output.txt`    --- "Pastes" the output of `ls -l` to a file 
	Note - This will always rewrite the file from the beginning.

`ls -l /usr/bin >> ls-output.txt` --- **Appends** the output to the file, doesnt overwrite.

`ls -l /bin/user 2> ls-error.txt` --- This redirects the error message to the file.

`ls -l /bin/usr &> ls-output.txt` --- This redirects both output and the error message to the file.

`ls -l /bin/usr &>> ls-output.txt`  --- Append both output and error to file.



# 3. Use grep and regular expressions to analyze text

```
grep options

-i  --ignore-case
-v  --invert-match               Print lines that does not contain a match.
-c  --count                      Print # of matches.
-l  --files-with-matches         Print name of each file that contains match.
-L  --files-without-match
-n  --line-number
-h  --no-filename
```



# 4. Access remote systems using SSH

```
Pre-reqs:

- Must have `OpenSSH-server` package installed, configured and running.
- Must allow incoming network connections on TCP port 22.

Syntax:

ssh <host>
ssh <user>@<host>

Relevant Files:

~/.ssh/known_hosts

## Generate a public and a private key:

ssh-keygen

Both keys are stored in the ~/.ssh/ directory:

~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub - public key
~/.ssh/id_rsa - private key

## Copy the most recently modified public key to a remote machine you want to log into:

ssh-copy-id USER@hostname
```


# 5. Log in and switch users in multiuser targets

You can define the state you want your system to boot into. This is called a `systemd` target, and it is a set of `systemd` units that your system starts to reach a certain level of functionality.

Targets in `systemd` are groups of related units that act as synchronization points during the start of your system. Target unit files, which end with the `.target` file extension, represent the `systemd` targets.

`systemctl list-units --type=target`
`systemctl get-default`
`systemctl set-default <name>.target`

Types of Targets:

- poweroff
- rescue
- multi-user
- graphical
- reboot

To switch users:

`su - user1`
`su - user2`
`sudo -u user2`
`exec su - [username]`

# 6. Archive, compress, unpack, and decompress files using tar, star, gzip, and bzip2

File Compression Programs:

- gzip - Compress or expand files
- bzip2 - A block sorting file compressor. Uses a different compression algo. 

Archiving Programs:

- tar - Tape archiving utility
- zip - Package and compress files

File synchronization program:

- rysnc - Remote file and directory synchronization.

## Compressing

```
gzip foo.txt  ---- Compressed version will be foo.txt.gz
gunzip foo.txt ---- Decompress foo.txt
bzip2 foo.txt
bunzip2 foo.txt

gzip -r protofiles   -- Recursively zip files in the directory
```

## Archiving

Archiving is the process of gathering up many files and bundling them together into a single large file. 

```
-c  Create
-v  Verbose
-f  Specify name of archive

tar -cvf exampl.tar example  --- Create an archive named example.tar
tar -tvf example.tar         --- List contents of an archive.

```