
Red Hat Enterprise Linux uses a standard logging system that is based on the syslog protocol to log the system messages. Many programs use the logging system to record events and to organize them into log files.

The `systemd-journald` and `rsyslog` services handle the syslog messages in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.

The `systemd-journald` and `rsyslog` services handle the syslog messages in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.

The `systemd-journald` service is at the heart of the operating system event logging architecture.

The `rsyslog` service reads syslog messages that the `systemd-journald` service receives from the journal when they arrive. The `rsyslog` service then processes the syslog events, and records them to its log files or forwards them to other services according to its own configuration.

The `rsyslog` service sorts and writes syslog messages to the log files that ***do persist*** across reboots in the `/var/log` directory.


The `rsyslog` service uses the **facility** and **priority** of log messages to determine how to handle them. Rules configure this facility and priority in the `/etc/rsyslog.conf` file and in any file in the `/etc/rsyslog.d` directory with the `.conf` extension.

Each rule that controls how to sort syslog messages has a line in one of the configuration files. 

- The left side of each line indicates the facility and priority of the syslog messages that the rule matches. 
- The right side of each line indicates which file to save the log message in (or where else to deliver the message). An asterisk (`*`) is a wildcard that matches all values.


For example, the following line in the /etc/rsyslog.d file would record messages that are sent to the authpriv facility at any priority to the /var/log/secure file:


`authpriv = Non-system authorization messages`

```
authpriv.*                  /var/log/secure
```

#### Log File Rotation

The `logrotate` command rotates log files to prevent them from taking too much space in the `/﻿var/log` directory. When a log file is rotated, it is renamed with an extension that indicates the rotation date.

For example, the previous `/var/log/messages` file is renamed to the `/var/log/messages-20220320` file when it is rotated on 2022-03-20. After the previous log file rotates, it creates a log file and notifies the service that wrote the log file.

A scheduled job runs the `logrotate` command daily to see the rotation requirement of any log files. Most log files rotate weekly; the `logrotate` command rotates some log files faster, or more slowly, or when they reach a specific size.