
### Reset the Root Password from the Boot Loader

One task that every system administrator should be able to accomplish is resetting a lost `root` password.

Several methods exist to set a new `root` password. A system administrator could, for example, boot the system by using a Live CD, mount the root file system from there, and edit `/etc/shadow`.

## If you install your system from a DVD:

1. Reboot the system.
2. Interrupt the boot-loader countdown by pressing any key, except **Enter**.
3. Move the cursor to the rescue kernel entry to boot (the entry with the _rescue_ word in its name).
4. Press **e** to edit the selected entry.
5. Move the cursor to the kernel command line (the line that starts with `linux`).
6. Append `rd.break`. With that option, the system breaks just before the system hands control from the `initramfs` image to the actual system.
7. Press **Ctrl**+**x** to boot with the changes.
8. Press **Enter** to perform maintenance when prompted.

At this point, the system presents a `root` shell, and the root file system on the disk is mounted read-only on `/sysroot`. Because troubleshooting often requires modifying the root file system, you must remount the root file system as read/write.

To reset `root` password:

1. Remount `/sysroot` as read/write.

```
sh-5.1# mount -o remount,rw /sysroot
```

2. Switch into a `chroot` jail, where `/sysroot` is treated as the root of the file-system tree.

```
# chroot /sysroot
```

3. Set a new `root` password.

```
passwd root
```

4. Ensure that all unlabeled files, including `/etc/shadow` at this point, get relabeled during boot.

```
touch /.autorelabel
```

5. Type `exit` twice. The first command exits the `chroot` jail, and the second command exits the `initramfs` debug shell.

#### Enable the Early Debug Shell

By enabling the `debug-shell` service with:

```
systemctl enable debug-shell.service
```

command, the system spawns a `root` shell on `TTY9` (**Ctrl**+**Alt**+**F9**) early during the boot sequence. This shell is automatically logged in as `root`, so that administrators can debug the system when the operating system is still booting.



