
It's a program that is in execution.

For each program thats running, the kernel kept track of:

- The Current location of execution - such as waiting for a system call to return from the kernel - also known as the programs context. 
- Which files the program had access to
- Programs credentials (which user and group owned the process)
- Programs current directory
- Which memory space the program has access to and how its laid out.

A process was also the basic scheduling unit for the operating system. Only processes were allowed to run on the CPU.

## Complicating Things with Threads

A thread allows a single program to run in multiple places at the same time. A thread allows a single program to run in multiple places at the same time. 

For example, multiple threads that originate from the same program share information on open files, credentials, current directory, and memory image. 

- As soon as one of the threads modifies a global variable, all the threads see the new value rather than the old one.

Many Unix implementations (including AT&T's canonical System V release) were redesigned to make threads the fundamental scheduling unit for the kernel, and a process became a collection of threads that shared resources.

As so many resources were shared among threads, the kernel could switch between threads in the same process more quickly than it could perform a full context switch between processes. This resulted in most Unix kernels having a two-tiered process model that differentiates between threads and processes.

## The Linux Approach

Linux took another approach, as developers never saw a huge improvement from moving "thread switches" as opposed to process switches.

Under Linux, a process is defined solely as a scheduling entity and the only thing unique to a process is its current execution context.

- It does not imply anything about shared resources, because a process creating a new child process has full control over which resources the two processes share.

This model allows the traditional Unix process management approach to be retained while allowing a traditional thread interface to be built outside the kernel.



So, Process = Either 1 or a set of scheduling entities.

# If there are multiple processes, the individual processes are called **threads**.








