
PID = Process ID. Unique ID of a process. In code, it is stored in a variable of type:

```
pid_t
```

When a new process is created, the original process is known as the **parent** of the new process and is notified when the new child process ends.

When a process dies, its exit code is stored until the parent process requests it. The exit status is kept in the kernel's process table, which forces the kernel to keep the process's entry active until it can safely discard its exit status.

-  Processes that have exited and are kept around only to preserve their exit status are known as **zombies**.

If a process's ***parent*** exits (making the child process an **orphan process**), that process becomes a child of the **init process**.

The init process is the first process started when a machine is booted and is assigned a pid of 1. One of the primary jobs of the init process is to collect the exit statuses of processes whose parents have died, allowing the kernel to remove the child processes from the process table.

# Credentials

UID = Integer that represents a user.
GID = Integer that represents a group.

UID 0 = root


In **most** cases, a Process is considered to have 1 UID and 1 GID. The ID's are used for security purposes. 

As Unix developed, restricting processes to a single group turned out to create new difficulties. Users involved in multiple projects had to explicitly switch their GID when they wanted to access files whose access was restricted to members of different groups.


Nowadays, a process has:

- UID
- Primary GID
- A set of supplemental GID's

There's two classes of programs that need to constantly modify these values:

- setuid/getuid programs
- system daemons


System Daemons: Programs that are always running on a system and perform some action at the request of an external stimulus. Most daemons need to run with root permissions but perform actions at the request of a user.

For example:

- Most World Wide Web (http) daemons are always running, waiting for a client to connect to it so that they can process the client's requests.
- The Cron Daemon (makes periodic requests). It sleeps until a time when they need to perform actions. 


- FTP Daemon: Initially runs as root, then switches its UID to the UID of the user who logs into it. This leaves the job of validating file access to the kernel where it belongs. 

Under some circumstances, however, the ftp daemon must open a network connection in a way that only root is allowed to do. Once it switches to the UID of the user, it cannot give itself superuser access to do it. BUTTT!

- Keeping the root UID rather than switching to the user's would require the FTP Daemon to check all file-system accesses itself... 

So What Do?

A Process actually has three UIDS:

- Real UID
- Saved UID
- Effective UID

The **Effective UID** is used for all security checks.
The **Saved** and **Real** UID's are checked only when a process attempts to change its **Effective** UID.  Any process may change its effective uid to the same value as either its saved or real uid.

Normally, a process's effective, real, and saved uid's are all the same. However, this mechanism solves the ftp daemon's dilemma.

1. When it starts, all its IDs are set to 0, giving it root permissions. 
2. When a user logs in, the daemon sets its effective uid to the uid of the user, leaving both the saved and real uids as 0. 
3. When the ftp daemon needs to perform an action restricted to root, it sets its effective uid to 0, performs the action, and then resets the effective uid to the uid of the user who is logged in.

							1. EUID = 0, SUID = 0, RUID = 0
							2. EUID = 1001 (user), SUID = 0, RUID = 0
							3. EUID = 0, SUID = 0, RUID = 0
							4. EUID = 1001, SUID = 0, RUID = 0

The passwd program is a simple example of why setuid and setgid functionality was introduced.

- Passwords normally stored in /etc/password (or /etc/shadow/password)
- Only root can modify this.
- Users need to be able to change their own passwords.

To allow this flexibility, the owner of a program may set special bits in the program's permission bits , which tells the kernel that whenever the program is executed, it should run with the same effective uid (or gid) as the user who owns the program file, regardless of what user runs the program. These programs are called **setuid** (or **setgid**) executables.

Making the passwd program owned by the root user and setting the setuid bit in the program's **permission bits** lets all users change their passwords.

When a user runs passwd, the passwd program is run with an effective user ID of 0, allowing it to modify /etc/passwd and change the user's password.










