
[Linux Processes and Signals- 2020 (bogotobogo.com)](https://www.bogotobogo.com/Linux/linux_process_and_signals.php)


The lifetimes of parent and child processes are usually not the same: either the parent outlives the child or vice versa.

What happens to a child that terminates before its parent has had a chance to perform a **wait()**?

- Remember - wait() is expecting a description of how its child process terminated.

The Linux kernel turns the child process into a zombie. This means that most of the resources held by the child are released back to the system to be reused by other processes.

After **wait()** is called, the zombie process is completely removed from memory.

This normally happens very quickly, so you won't see zombie processes accumulating on your system. However, if a parent process isn't programmed properly and never calls **wait()**, its zombie children will stick around in memory until they're cleaned up.

Typically a few zombie processes will be in your system - thats OK. But if you start getting a massive amount of zombie processes, you can get rid of them by:

One way is by sending the **SIGCHLD** signal to the parent process. This signal tells the parent process to execute the **wait()** system call and clean up its zombie children. Send the signal with the kill command, replacing pid in the command below with the parent process's PID:

```
kill -s SIGCHLD pid
```


**init** periodically executes the **wait()** system call to clean up its zombie children, so init will make short work of the zombies.

ORPHANED PROCESSES ARE NOT ZOMBIE PROCESSES!

Orphaned = child is still running but parent has died.

